Well this morning I invite you to open up your Bible with me to Revelation chapter 7 and let's review a few highlights of this
extremely exciting prophecy in its context
doing so will help us to see what will strengthen our desire to work hard for Jehovah in our various assignments
As you look at Revelation chapter 7 verses 1 to 3
You'll notice quickly what John saw and heard
four angels holding back destructive winds from harming the earth and the sea
what's it teach us? Right now though invisible to our eyes
powerful angels are holding back the destructive winds of the great tribulation
what are they waiting for? Verse 3 indicates that one key event involves the confirmation
that the remaining ones on earth of the 144,000 have been finally sealed for their heavenly reward
verses 4 to 8 go on to give us assurance that the full number of spiritual Israel will be sealed
think of that soon the full staff making up our heavenly government will be installed
then it will be out with the new out with the old and in with the new the new kingdom government
ruling over the entire earth but now where to those with an earthly hope fit in to this prophecy
let's read together verses 9 and 10 of Revelation chapter 7
After this I saw and perhaps with a measure of excitement and awe John says and look a great crowd
which no man was able to number out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues
standing before the throne and before the lamb dressed in white roads and there were palm branches
in their hands and they keep shouting with a loud voice saying salvation we owe to our God who
has seated on the throne and to the lamb our date text in verse 14 goes on to explain that these
are the ones who come out of the great tribulation well what does the prophecy remind us
it clearly indicates that today a great crowd and unnumbered multilingual multinational
multi tribal crowd of people are being gathered who will survive the coming great tribulation
of course as we've researched and read we know that after this prophecy was clarified
for Jehovah's people in 1935 a common question circulated among Jehovah's people
how great will the great crowd turn out to be you know that's still an intriguing question
today the great crowd numbers over 8 million but it's growing every year
did you know that during the last five service years from 2016 through 2020 over 1.3 million
new disciples were baptized during the last five service years that's an average of over 750 new
disciples every day and early indications for this year the 2021 service year are that the fields
continue to be very white for harvesting i thought it would be encouraging to share with you two
examples that we received in the service committee office recently in april 2021 a branch office
much untouched territory and a ratio of one publisher to over 20 000 persons submitted this report
i quote despite the pandemic we have been greatly encouraged to see sustained and accelerated
growth in the field we have observed publisher peaks continue for 27 months in a row in spite of
a nationwide lockdown and the exodus of need graders the same branch territory reported during
the 2020 service year a five percent publisher increase the report goes on the number of
bible studies has steadily increased meeting attendances have also progressively increased
the 2021 memorial attendance was a 20 percent increase over 2020 which is more than three times the
number of publishers in one of their main language fields the branch reports that in spite of extreme
poverty malnutrition illiteracy lack of electricity and internet they are seeing an explosion of
interest in the bible consider the report from just one congregation in this region one congregation
with 30 publishers which includes four temporary special pioneers is reporting 126 bible studies
but we have to look a little deeper to get the full story the branch reports that a bible study
in this congregation is often a group of eight to ten bible students studying the bible together
they have over 300 regularly attending the meetings and at the memorial this year the congregation
of 30 had more than 2,200 in attendance each bible student is conducting dozens of his or her own
bible studies and they in turn are conducting their own studies people in this area the branch
reports are desperately hungering and thirsting for spiritual truth what an encouraging report
like Jesus as we lift up our eyes and we view the fields what do we see tremendous potential
for the great crowd to be even greater than it is today brothers and sisters such reports of
increase are not isolated to lands with virgin territory one of the larger branches in europe
recently reported that for the 2021 memorial this past spring they experienced all time peaks in
eight of the 12 countries they oversee in the country where the branch office is located the
last time they experienced a peak for the memorial was in 1994 27 years ago now that same country is
reporting all time peaks in publishers pioneers an increase in the number of reactivated publishers
and a decrease in the number of publishers going inactive again what do we see when we look at the
fields you know we have to ask the question will hundreds of thousands more could millions more
join us in true worship before the end comes well we'll have to wait and see but what do we know
though the apostle john in his vision reported that no man was able to number the great crowd
we know that jahova and jesus know who belonged to them back in 2002 in an article entitled
how will they hear notice the comet made by the faithful slave i quote jahova is responsible
for this work and is using his angels to oversee it he is the one to determine to what extent
the witness is to be given to all the nations if jahova chooses he can see that the kingdom
message is spread in ways that we cannot yet imagine so that many more people may hear the word
of the good news and believe in conclusion the article says what jahova does will be in full harmony
with who he is a loving wise and just god you know in the first century when jesus saw the crowds
of people that were thrown about like sheep without a shepherd the bible reports that he felt
pity deep seated motion that moved him to action on two occasions when he was with his disciples
here on the earth he said the harvest is great but the workers are few and then he encouraged us
to beg the master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest well how do we think jahova
and jesus feel about the harvest work today they see the need and they're responding to the need
through the governing body through the oversight of branch committees worldwide how does this
strengthen us to support them in our assignments well jesus words to his disciples back then
remind us that we want to keep begging the master of the harvest jahova to send out workers into
his harvest our prayers for this work to be accomplished to the extent and on the scale that jahova
desires will be answered but there's something more like jesus we can be the answer to that prayer
by being workers in the harvest all of this is very encouraging and exciting a reminder that our
work here at Bethel or in various field assignments is not in vain brothers and sisters so may we
today view our privileges the privilege to pray earnestly the privilege to preach and teach the
privilege to support the kingdom work in various ways move us to do our part to contribute to the
great crowd turning out to be very great